Hello and welcome.
So far we've talked about implementing the adapter using composition.
Now I want to talk about the class adapter implementation which includes inheritance so we define the
adapter pattern.
However there are actually two kinds of adapters there's the optic adapters that we talked about and
this relies on object composition.
One object containing another object adapting object and the adapted object class adapters is another
way to implement the adapter pattern.
This uses multiple inheritance.
The reason I talked about the second is because java does not support multiple inheritance.
So a class adapter is less of a focus in Java because you need multiple inheritance to implement it
correctly.
It's not possible in Java although we do know that in Java you can work around multiple inheritance
by providing interfaces.
However it also doesn't mean that you might not encounter a need for a class adapter down the road.
So that's why I'm presenting to you even though we're focused on Java you can utilize interfaces as
a workaround.
As I mentioned for the lack of support multiple inheritance in Java
so here is the object adapter review where it uses composition.
This should be familiar.
We had a couple examples.
Your target your adapter your adapter contains an instance of the adapter adapter adapter and you basically
just make calls in the adapter to do your to do your translation or do your conversion.
The class adapter design is a bit different because it uses inheritance so instead of using a composition
to adapt the DFT you the adapter now subclasses the adapter in any target classes and that's the difference
a class adapter is very similar to an object adapter the class adapter will subclass the target and
the adapter.
The object adapter will use composition to pass request to an adapter as incompetent.
So this is really all about composition versus inheritance and we talked about how we want to use composition
more than we want to use inheritance because it has many different advantages such as you don't have
to deal with all the subclass and the dependencies between the base and the subclass and so forth.
A class adapter works by creating a new class which subclasses publicly from an after class to define
its interface subclasses privately from our existing class to access its implementation.
Each rap method calls its associated privately inherited method a class adapter needs.
I'm sorry a class adapter adapts the adapting to the target by committing to a concrete adapt the class
will not work when we want to adapt.
Class in all of its subclasses class adapter lets an adapter override some of the adapters behavior
since adapter is a subclass of adoptee so that's one advantage.
You can override anything in the adapter adapters behavior.
That's pretty neat concept.
So here this is where we'd have to actually use interfaces in Java.
But here's an example of the class adapter you have your client.
And remember our doc and our turkey.
Those two were not able to talk to each other because they had different interfaces.
You could speak but they spoke differently so the client thinks he's talking to a doc.
The target is the duck class.
This is what the client invokes methods on the adapter lets the turkey respond to requests on a doc
by extending both classes.
Duck and Turkey the Turkey class does not have the same methods as a duck but the adapter can take the
duck method calls and turn around and invoke methods on the turkey you do it through inheritance.
So the adapter would implement the target interface and they adapt the interface.
You'd have to add an interface in here to extend multiple classes.
You would implement multiple interfaces.
The adapter would implement the target interface and then you'd have to add an interface for the adapter
as well and then you can override behavior if you need to so the object adapter remember again uses
composition.
We know all about this.
It's different when you do the class adapter right.
You don't have an instance of the adapting and the adapter which then does all its conversion.
You use inheritance so to summarize an advantage of the object adapter is that can adapt and adapt.
Class in the ending of its subclasses because of composition doesn't necessarily worry about the subclasses
it just has a relationship with the interface or the base class.
Class adapters committed to one specific adoptee class an advantage of a class adapters that it does
not need to re implement.
It's an entire adoptee.
It can override the behavior of an adoptee if it needs to because it is just subclasses.
The object adapter is more flexible composition is also preferred over interfaces inheritance.
Sorry.
So that's an advantage.
You write very little code to delegate to the adapter.
Right.
Usually those conversion methods are very small.
The class adapter is more efficient.
There's only one there's not an adapter in into that the an object adapter can add new behavior and
everything works with the adapter class in all of its subclasses so the adagio adapter has the advantage
of work with subclasses easier as well.
But this is the class it out there will go through an implementation example just to show it to you.
You probably won't use the class adapter much in Java because lack of implementation for multiple inheritance.
Again you can work around it with interfaces but it just becomes too messy and the object adapter usually
meet your needs.
So I would suggest using the object adapter as much as possible.
I just wanted to show you the class adapter for reference.
Thank you.